# DSC_202_NBA_Analysis

For our project, we aim to develop a player comparison and performance analysis system for general managers or recruiters to evaluate player statistics, such as identifying which players perform better with or against certain other players, discovering underlying team chemistry, and performing general data analytics on player performances. The relationships between players can provide insights beyond standalone statistics. We will work with officially recorded professional basketball statistics from the National Basketball Association (NBA) for two seasons (2023-2025), and we will use three different database structures in our project: relational, graph, and JSON (MongoDB). 

For the relational database, we will store seasonal statistics for each player. A few example columns include player name, games played, points, total rebounds, assists, field goal percentage, 3-point field goal percentage, free-throw percentage, effective field goal percentage, etc.... 

For the graph database, each player would be represented as a node, and the edges would represent relationships between players, including which players have played with each other and how many seasons and games the node player has played with the edge-connected player. We will also include edges representing players that the node player has played against, along with the number of seasons and games they played against each other.

Finally, we will use a JSON (MongoDB) database to store more detailed game log information for each game a player has played. The data may contain null data due to differences in player performance across multiple games. This makes our data less suitable for a fixed relational schema. It would be more appropriate for a document-based database like MongoDB, which allows us to store relevant fields of the game log without enforcing a fixed structure.
